None of us like to contemplate being in a serious accident or receiving news that we have
a very serious illness that may even be life-threatening.
When the blood issue also arises at such times, of course, we're all determined that we're
going to keep our integrity, but we also feel the need for comfort and for support so that
we can remain faithful.
Now Jehovah never promised, for this period of time, that we would receive miraculous healing,
but he did promise that we would receive something very significant.
Would you open your Bibles with me?
Let's look together at Psalm 41 and verse 3.
He says, Jehovah will sustain him on his sick bed.
During his sickness, you will completely change his bed.
Well now the watchtower, back in 2008, the September 15th issue, just made a nice little comment
on this verse.
It said, David did not expect Jehovah to perform a miracle and remove his sickness.
Rather, David felt certain that Jehovah would sustain him, that is, give him support and
strength while he was lying on his sick bed.
Well, that's what Jehovah has promised.
He's promised that he's going to provide us with the support and the strength that we
need so that we can keep our integrity.
Well hospital information services here in Brooklyn, the hospital information desks at
each of the branches and the hospital liaison committees have been a very powerful tool,
in the hand of Jehovah, to provide this support and strength when the blood issue arises.
Did you know that now worldwide, there are some 1700, that is 1,700 hospital liaison committees
with over 13,000 members.
This is not easy work.
The vast majority of these brothers are not physicians, they're not connected to the
medical community in any way.
Often they have to get up in the middle of the night to go to the hospital.
Sometimes they deal with very confrontational situations.
Usually all of the situations that they deal with are emotionally charged.
Their work is very seldom seen by others.
They are not in the spotlight.
Well when we reflect on the work of these wonderful brothers who are willing to accomplish this
work of giving assistance and support and help to our brothers, we can't help but think
of this scripture in Jeremiah chapter 23, where Jehovah says, Jeremiah chapter 23 and
verse 4, and I will raise up over them shepherds who will really shepherd them.
They will no longer be afraid or be terrified and none will be missing, declares Jehovah.
Well, that's exactly what the hospital liaison committee brothers do.
They are wonderful shepherds who are there to help the brothers, to have the information
and the assistance they need so that they can maintain their integrity.
I recall one experience when I was working with a hospital information desk in Canada,
a sister in a northern Canadian city, she had been very, very seriously injured.
She had to be airlifted to a larger center where she would be able to receive more intensive
care.
A hospital liaison committee member was immediately notified.
He went to the hospital and so as soon as the aircraft landed and the sister was being
taken off and wheeled into the hospital, there the brother was waiting in the hallway.
And so when he approached her lying on this stretcher, the sister was trembling with fear.
Well, when he looked down at her, she looked up and she said, are you a doctor?
And he said, no, I am your brother.
Well, immediately the sister, this huge sigh of relief, because now there was someone
who could give her the practical help that she so much needed.
Well, what are some of the ways that this arrangement does provide practical support?
Well, I'm not sure if you know this, but at 89 branch offices around the world, including
the United States and Canada, we have brothers who are on call 24 hours a day, seven days
a week, to answer calls from hospital liaison committee members, and also from doctors
who request assistance on how to treat Jehovah's Witnesses without the use of blood.
This is an amazing arrangement.
When I worked with HIS, I recall many times in the middle of the night, we would receive
calls from a brother or a sister or from an HLC or from a doctor about someone who was
desperately in need of assistance.
And the organization had provided such wonderful tools.
For example, a database has been assembled of literally thousands of medical articles
from respected medical journals.
Now these articles can be sent to a doctor or to a medical team, and they explain in
very specifically what can be done to address a situation without the use of blood transfusion.
Often when a doctor receives an article like that, he sees it's from one of his peers,
it's been published in a respected journal, he is much more willing to cooperate.
And also, he sees in a practical way what can be done.
But even better, each hospital information desk maintains a list of consulting doctors.
Now these are very well respected physicians who are not afraid to confer with other doctors
and explain to them how even very complex, very difficult cases can be managed without
the use of blood.
I recall one time in the middle of the night, we received a call about a sister who had
just given birth and she had lost a significant amount of blood.
The doctor managing her case was very interested in receiving help.
Well, we called a very, very well respected professor of obstetrics and gynecology in Canada
who was always willing to provide assistance.
Well, I started off the call by saying, I'm so sorry to call you so late at night.
Well the doctor said, please don't apologize Mark, I'm always happy to do anything I can
to help the sisters.
Well, of course, he was not a witness himself.
But he viewed those dear ones as his own sisters and he was willing to help them.
Well, such courageous and skilled physicians all around the world have done so much to
help our brothers and the tools just keep on improving.
I many of you may know that now we have a section for medical professionals on our JW.org
website.
Now, I'll reiterate, this is not a site or an area for Jehovah's people.
It's specifically designed for medical professionals.
But that area, although it's only recently been established, is already having a wonderful
effect.
Let me relate this experience.
The sister wrote this into the branch.
She said, recently, my husband took me to the emergency room and we discovered I had
a mass of some sort near my appendix and that a huge and possibly messy surgery was needed
to discover the problem.
When I told the surgeon that was assigned to me that I was one of Jehovah's witnesses,
he became agitated when I reinforced my non-negotiable stand.
He never became rude or harsh, but I could tell that he was very troubled.
My husband left to make a phone call to the brothers.
Five minutes later, a resident came to tell me that the surgeon had just gone to the JW.org
website and was downloading information.
We had never mentioned the website.
How he knew or who told him will never know.
But ten minutes later, he came back with copies of the information.
He had read it, he had marked the pages, and he went over everything with my husband
and I.
Then he took my hand and he smiled.
He asked if I was ready and he promised to do his very best for me.
He said he too had made some non-negotiable decisions with God in his lifetime.
He saw me about twelve hours after the surgery and I teased him about being a trouble.
He said, no, it was extraordinary.
We know he meant what he had just learned about the Hospital liaison committee and Jehovah's
provision for information for his people.
The sister concluded by saying, I have never felt such a wave of peace from Jehovah in
all my years in the truth.
Well, Jehovah did not promise us miraculous healing at this time, but he did promise that
he would provide us with support and strength when we are sick.
What a beautiful gift Jehovah has given his people through the fine work of the Hospital
liaison committees.
Truly, this has been a strengthening aid for us to keep abstaining from blood.